*Do not discuss problems of ongoing competition
*On competitions if you don't understand something in the statement, you could ask the jury for a clarification by sending a specific question about the problem assuming a Yes/No answer
*Sample test cases can not be trusted. Invent your own test cases.


Timed: 2-5 hours
Individual or team
Time limit : 1 or 2 second
Space limit: 512 mb
Hardest problem 200 lines at most


Verdicts:
1. CE - Compilation error
2. RE - Runtime error
3. TL - Time limit exceeded
4. ML - Memory limit exceeded
5. PE - Presentation error - Output formatted incorrectly
6. WA - Wrong answer - Output not correct
7. AC - Accepted



Steps in solving a problem:
1. Read the statement
2. Formalize it
3. Invent a solution
4. Prove it
5. Implement it
6. Test your implementation
7. Debug if not working
8. Submit and get AC (hopefully)



Ask questions:
1. Summarize the issue in the title as good as possible
2. Format your question and code in it well
3. Include just enough code to reproduce the problem



As time is everything, find a way to do routine things faster/before the contest:
1. Learn to use specific IDE, preferabley lightweight one - save time on creating new projects, opening new files, debugging
2. Prepare a template code with common includes and so on - to not start from scratch each time
3. Backup code versions and tests



ACM ICPC: ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest
1. 5 hours contest
2. Team of three
3. One computer per team
4. Result right after submission
5. Ranking by number of accepted problems, on equality - by penalty time. Penalty time = minute when got AC + incorrect attempts * 20
6. You must be enrolled in a degree program to participate
7. Onsite contests, multi-tiered: Subregionals, Regionals, World Finals



Google Code Jam, Facebook Hacker Cup:
1. Individual, open for all
2. Annual, begin with Qualification Round, usually April(GCJ) and January (FHC)
3. All round except final are online
4. You solve the problem, request input and in several(6) minutes need to send output, so not solution itself



TopCoder:
1. Regular rounds - Single Round Matches (SRMs)
2. One rounds in every two weeks
3. No price
4. Rating system - after each round your rating changes
5. Challenge phase - you need to come up with a test to fail other people's solution
6. Annual TopCoder Open - multi-tiered championship



Codeforces:
1. Also regular rounds and rating system
2. Prize rounds with job opportunities by technological companies



TopCoder
AtCoder



Other resources:
1. Codechef - regular rounds and practice problems
2. Hackerrank - rounds and challenges, strongly aimed to help companies in recruiting
3. Sphere Online Judge - vast problems archive
4. CSAcademy - poised for learningf



Stress testing
Unit testing



In fast languages like C++ and Java operations per sec is 10^8 - 10^9
In slow languages like python operations per sec is 10^7



Light operations:
• Addition, subtraction
• logical
• Multiplication
Heavy operations:
• %
• appending to strings/lists
• recursion
• math functions like sqrt
• Input, Output



Integer Overflow:
1. Integer 4 bytes in java and python. Heighest value is 2 billion.
2. In python the size is expanded as much as needed
3. Product of two integers is integer
4. Product of one integer and one long is long
5. Long is 64 bit
6. Fractions are stored as Numerator and Denominator